Q1. What is the purpose of Python's OOP?

Ans===>  The primary purpose of Python's object-oriented programming (OOP) is to provide a way to organize and structure your code in a logical and modular manner.
 OOP allows you to define classes, which are templates for creating objects. These objects can be used to represent real-world entities or abstract concepts, and they can contain 
both data (attributes) and behavior (methods).

Q2. Where does an inheritance search look for an attribute?

Ans===> The inheritance search looks for an attribute first in the object's own attributes, then in the object's class attributes and parent classes' attributes,
 in that order. This process continues until the attribute is found or until the end of the inheritance tree is reached.

Q3. How do you distinguish between a class object and an instance object?

Ans===> Class obj: It is global access with respective to particular class
        Instance obj: It is tightly coupled with that particular object by using (self) reference itself.

Q4. What makes the first argument in a class’s method function special?

Ans===>  The first argument in a class's method function is special because it is a reference to the instance object on which the method is being called.
 This argument is usually named ' self' , but you can use any valid Python identifier. The 'self' argument is used to access the attributes and methods of the instance object
 from within the method. This allows you to define methods that can operate on the instance object's data and behavior.

Q5. What is the purpose of the init method?

Ans===> The 'init()' method, also known as the initializer method, is a special method in Python classes that is called when an instance object is created. 
The 'init()' method is used to initialize the attributes of the instance object and to set their initial values.

Q6. What is the process for creating a class instance?

Ans===> Define a class using the class keyword, followed by the name of the class. Inside the class definition, define the init() method, which is the constructor for the class.
 This method is called when the class is instantiated, and it allows you to set initial values for the object's attributes. Inside the init() method, use the self keyword to reference the current 
instance of the class, and to set initial values for the object's attributes. Outside the class definition, create an instance of the class by calling the class name followed by parentheses.
 Inside the parentheses, provide any required arguments for the init() method. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age

my_instance = MyClass("Kumar", 25)

Q7. What is the process for creating a class?

Ans===>  In Python, creating a class follows these steps:

Use the class keyword, followed by the name of the class, to define a new class. Inside the class definition, use the def keyword to define a method.
 The first argument to the method should be self, which is a reference to the current instance of the class. Inside the method, use the self keyword to access or modify the attributes
 of the current instance of the class. Optionally, define the init() method, which is the constructor for the class. This method is called when the class is instantiated,
 and it allows you to set initial values for the object's attributes. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age

def say_hello(self): print("Hello, my name is " + self.name)

Q8. How would you define the superclasses of a class?

Ans===>  In Python, a class can have one or more superclasses, which are classes from which it inherits attributes and methods. To define the superclasses of a class,
 you use the class keyword followed by the name of the class, and then a tuple containing the names of the superclasses within parentheses. Eg: class MyClass(SuperClass1, SuperClass2):

Q9. What is the relationship between classes and modules?

Ans===> In Python, a class is a type of object that can be defined and used within a module. A module is a file containing Python code, and it can contain one or more classes, 
as well as other types of objects such as functions and variables.
The relationship between classes and modules is similar to the relationship between objects and classes. Just as an object is an instance of a class, a module is a container for classes and other objects. Just as an object can access and use the attributes and methods of its class, a module can access and use the objects (including classes) that it contains.

Q10. How do you make instances and classes?

Ans===> To create an instance of a class in Python, you first need to define the class using the 'class' keyword, followed by the name of the class. Inside the class definition, you can define methods, which are functions that are associated with the class and can be called on instances of the class.

Once the class is defined, you can create an instance of the class by calling the class name followed by parentheses. Inside the parentheses, you can provide any required arguments 
for the class's init() method, which is the constructor for the class. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age
def say_hello(self): print("Hello, my name is " + self.name)
my_instance = MyClass("Kumar", 25)


Q11. Where and how should be class attributes created?

 Ans===> Class attributes in Python should be created inside the class definition, and should be assigned a default value. To create a class attribute, you simply assign a value to a variable
 within the class definition, using the same syntax as you would use to assign a value to a variable outside of a class. Eg: class MyClass: my_attribute = "This is a class attribute"
 def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age

Q12. Where and how are instance attributes created?

 Ans===> Instance attributes in Python should be created inside the class's init() method, which is the constructor for the class. To create an instance attribute, you simply assign a
 value to a variable using the self keyword, which is a reference to the current instance of the class. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age

Q13. What does the term "self" in a Python class mean?

Ans===> In a Python class, the self keyword is used to refer to the current instance of the class. It is equivalent to the this keyword in other programming languages, and it is used to access the
 attributes and methods of the current instance of the class. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, name, age): self.name = name self.age = age
 def say_hello(self): print("Hello, my name is " + self.name)

Q14. How does a Python class handle operator overloading?

Ans===>  In Python, operator overloading is the ability to define how operators (such as +, -, *, etc.) behave when applied to objects of a certain class.
 This allows you to customize the behavior of these operators for your own classes, and to make them work more intuitively with your class's data and methods.
To handle operator overloading in a Python class, you need to define special methods in the class that have the same name as the operator you want to overload. For example:
 to overload the '+' operator, you would define a method named 'add()' . To overload the ' - 'operator, you would define a method named 'sub()', and so on. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, value): self.value = value
def add(self, other): return self.value + other.value

Q15. When do you consider allowing operator overloading of your classes?

Ans===>  Operator overloading can be a useful feature in a Python class, as it allows you to customize the behavior of operators when applied to instances of your class.
 This can make your class's methods and data more intuitive and easier to use. However, operator overloading can also make your code more difficult to understand and maintain, especially
 for other programmers who are not familiar with your class. It can also make it harder to predict how your class will behave in different situations.
 Therefore, you should consider allowing operator overloading in your classes if you      have a clear and well-defined use case for it, and if you can make sure that the overloaded operators will behave in a consistent and predictable   way. Otherwise, you may want to avoid
 operator overloading to keep your code simpler and more readable.

Q16. What is the most popular form of operator overloading?

Ans===>  The most popular form of operator overloading in Python is to define special methods in a class that have the same name as the operator you want to overload.
 For example: to overload the '+' operator, you would define a method named 'add()'. To overload the '-' operator, you would define a method named 'sub()', and so on. Eg: class MyClass: def init(self, value): self.value = value
def add(self, other): return self.value + other.value

Q17. What are the two most important concepts to grasp in order to comprehend Python OOP code?

Ans===> The two most important concepts to grasp in order to comprehend Python OOP code are encapsulation and inheritance.

Q18. Describe three applications for exception processing.

Ans===> Exception processing is a mechanism in Python (and other programming languages) that allows you to handle errors and exceptional situations in your code.
 Exception processing is useful in a variety of applications, including:

Validating user input: When your program accepts input from a user or another source, you can use exception processing to validate that the input is in the correct format and meets certain criteria. For example, you can use exception handling to check that a user has entered a valid email address, or that a number they have entered is within a certain range.
Handling network and file operations: When your program performs operations on external resources, such as a network or a file system, there is a risk that the operation could fail due to a network outage, a file not being found, or other issues. Using exception processing, you can handle these failures gracefully and provide feedback to the user, or take other appropriate actions.
Debugging and testing: Exception processing can also be used as a tool for debugging and testing your code. By using try-except blocks and raising specific exceptions, you can identify and isolate specific problems in your code, and test how your code behaves when it encounters those problems. This can help you find and fix errors, and ensure that your code is robust and reliable.

Q19. What happens if you don't do something extra to treat an exception?

Ans===> If you don't do something extra to treat an exception in Python, the exception will be raised and your program will stop executing. When an exception is raised, the interpreter will look
 for a try-except block that can handle the exception, starting from the point where the exception was raised and working its way up the call stack. If no try-except block is found that can handle the
 exception, the interpreter will print an error message and the traceback, which shows the sequence of function calls that led to the exception being raised. This can provide useful information
 for debugging the problem, but it will also cause your program to terminate. Therefore, it is important to use try-except blocks to handle exceptions in your Python code, so that your program can continue
 running even if an error or exceptional situation occurs. Otherwise, your program will stop executing when an exception is raised, and it will not be able to recover from the error.

Q20. What are your options for recovering from an exception in your script?

Ans===> 1. Use a try-except block: The most common way to recover from an exception in Python is to use a try-except block. This allows you to catch the exception when it is raised, and provide an alternative
 course of action to take instead of letting the exception propagate and cause your program to terminate.
 2.Use a try-except-else block: In addition to the try-except block, you can also use a try-except-else block to handle exceptions in your Python code. This allows you to specify a block of 
code that will be executed if no exceptions are raised in the try block, and a separate except block that will be executed if an exception is raised.
 3.Use a try-except-finally block: Another option for handling exceptions in Python is to use a try-except-finally block. This allows you to specify a try block of code that will be executed, an except block
 that will be executed if an exception is raised, and a finally block that will be executed regardless of whether an exception is raised or not.

Q21. Describe two methods for triggering exceptions in your script.

Ans===> There are several methods for triggering exceptions in a Python script

 1.Use the raise keyword: To trigger an exception in Python, you can use the raise keyword, followed by the type of exception you want to raise. For example: to raise a ValueError exception,
 you can use the following code: Eg. raise ValueError("Invalid input")

 2.Use the assert keyword: Another way to trigger an exception in Python is to use the assert keyword, followed by a condition that you want to test. If the condition evaluates to False, an AssertionError
 exception will be raised. For example: you can use the following code to trigger an AssertionError exception if the variable x is not equal to 5. assert x == 5, "x must be 5" Eg: assert x == 5, "x must be 5"

Q22. Identify two methods for specifying actions to be executed at termination time, regardless of whether or not an exception exists.

Ans===>  1.Use a finally block: The first method for specifying actions to be executed at termination time is to use a finally block. This block of code can be used in conjunction with a try-except block, and it will be executed regardless of whether an exception is raised or not.
 2.Use a with statement: Another way to specify actions to be executed at termination time is to use a with statement. This statement allows you to define a context for a block of code, and specify actions to be taken when the block of code starts and when it ends.

Q23. What is the purpose of the try statement?

Ans===>  The purpose of the try statement in Python is to allow you to test a block of code for errors, and specify how to handle any errors that are raised.
 The try statement consists of a try block, which is the block of code that you want to test for errors, and one or more except blocks, which specify how to handle any errors that are raised in the try block. Eg: try:

Q24. What are the two most popular try statement variations?

Ans===> 1. The try-except block: The try-except block is the most commonly used variation of the try statement. It consists of a try block, which is the block of code that you want to test for errors,
 and one or more except blocks, which specify how to handle any errors that are raised in the try block. Eg: try:
 2. The try-finally block: The try-finally block is another variation of the try statement. It consists of a try block, which is the block of code that you want to test for errors, and a finally block,
 which specifies code that will be executed regardless of whether an exception is raised or not. Eg: try:

Q25. What is the purpose of the raise statement?

Ans===> The purpose of the raise statement in Python is to raise an exception. This allows you to explicitly trigger an exception in your code, and specify how the exception should be handled.
 The raise statement consists of the raise keyword, followed by the type of exception you want to raise and any additional arguments or information that you want to include with the exception.
 For example, to raise a ValueError exception with the message "Invalid input". Eg: raise ValueError("Invalid input")

Q26. What does the assert statement do, and what other statement is it like?

Ans===> In Python, the assert statement is used to check whether a condition is true or false.
 If the condition is true, the program continues to execute normally.And it is false, then the program stops and raises an AssertionError exception with an optional error message

Q27. What is the purpose of the with/as argument, and what other statement is it like?

Ans===> The with statement in Python allows you to define a context for a block of code, and specify actions to be taken when the block of code starts and when it ends.
 This is useful for managing resources, such as files or network connections, and ensuring that they are properly closed and released when they are no longer needed. The with statement consists of 
the with keyword, followed by an expression that returns an object that defines the context for the code, and the as keyword, followed by a variable that will be bound to the object returned by the expression.
  For example, to open a file and read its contents.

Q28. What are *args, **kwargs?

Ans===>  *args allows you to do is take in more arguments than the number of formal arguments that you previously defined.
For example, we want to make a multiply function that takes any number of arguments and is able to multiply them all together. It can be done using *args.
 **kwargs in function definitions in Python is used to pass a keyworded, variable-length argument list. We use the name kwargs with the double star.

Q29. How can I pass optional or keyword parameters from one function to another?

Ans===>  In Python, you can pass optional or keyword parameters from one function to another by using the * and ** syntax to unpack the arguments and keyword arguments.
 suppose you have a function func1() that takes two optional arguments and one keyword argument, and you want to call another function func2() with the same arguments and keyword arguments.
 Eg: def func1(arg1, arg2, kwarg1=None)

Q30. What are Lambda Functions?

Ans===> In Python, lambda functions are anonymous functions that are defined without a name. These functions are typically used as one-time, throwaway functions,
 and they are often used in combination with other functional programming concepts, such as map, filter, and reduce. Lambda functions are defined using the lambda keyword, followed by a
 list of arguments, a colon, and the function body. The function body can contain any valid Python expression, and it is typically a single line of code that returns a value.

Q31. Explain Inheritance in Python with an example?

Ans===>  Inheritance is a concept in object-oriented programming that allows a class to inherit attributes and behavior from a parent class. This allows you to define a
 hierarchy of classes, where classes at lower levels inherit from classes at higher levels, and can add or override attributes and behavior as needed. In Python, inheritance is implemented using 
the class keyword, followed by the name of the new class, the (ParentClass) syntax to specify the parent class, and a colon. Eg: class ChildClass(ParentClass):

Q32. Suppose class C inherits from classes A and B as class C(A,B).Classes A and B both have their own versions of method func(). If we call func() from an object of class C, which version gets invoked?

Ans===> In Python, when a class inherits from multiple parent classes, the method resolution order (MRO) determines which version of
 a method will be invoked when it is called from an object of the child class. In the case of the example you provided, where class C
 inherits from classes A and B as class C(A,B), and both classes A and B have their own versions of the func() method, the MRO will determine which version
 of the func() method gets invoked when it is called from an object of class C.

Q33. Which methods/functions do we use to determine the type of instance and inheritance?

Ans===> In Python, you can use the type() function to determine the type of an instance, and the issubclass() function to determine whether one class is a subclass of another.

Q34.Explain the use of the 'nonlocal' keyword in Python.

Ans===> In Python, the nonlocal keyword is used to indicate that a variable is nonlocal, and it is defined in an outer, but non-global, scope.
 This keyword is typically used in nested functions, where a variable defined in an outer function is accessed and modified in a nested function.

Q35. What is the global keyword?

Ans===>  In Python, the global keyword is used to indicate that a variable is global, and it is defined in the global scope.
 This keyword is typically used in nested functions, where a variable defined in the global scope is accessed and modified in a nested function.